Now what I want to do to kind of conclude
this part of survey design is talk about
some steps in survey design and
some dos and don'ts and best practices.
So let me lay it out there.
What are the typical
steps that are out there?
And we'll go through each of
these steps in more detail.
I think step 0 which is perhaps
the most important one is to make
sure your result are generalizable
to an appropriate population.
What does that mean?
What that means is typically when you're
doing a survey, maybe about 1,000 people,
2,000 people, 3,000 people,
whatever the number might be,
you're obviously interested
in what they have to say.
But what you're more interested
in is how does the thing
that you're capturing there, for example,
if it's customer satisfaction, how does it
generalize to your entire customer base?
So that's what I mean by step zero.
And we'll talk a little
bit about how you do that.
Step 1, develop a detailed listing
of what you want to capture.
Capture all of these things, write
the draft questions, design the flow and
the layout appropriately, evaluate,
test, retest, pilot test, redraft.
This is a circular process in
the sense that we first set it up.
We do some pilot testing,
go back to the drawing board,
clean up some questions that come about,
test it again and so
on until you're comfortable going
ahead and implementing that survey.
Step number 6 perhaps is very important
from implementation point of view.
Which is, if you're working within your
company or if you're a consultant working
for another company,
get approval from all the parties.
Extremely important, of course, if you're
to implement the survey with customers.
And finally, you go ahead do one more test
in terms of figuring out
whether the survey is good.
Look at the final copy and
implement the survey.
So let me go into more detail
about each of these steps.
As I said,
Step 0 perhaps the most important one.
It ensures that the data that you're
collecting from the survey will be useful.
Couple of things you ought to think about.
First, the population has
been defined correctly.
The sample is representative
of the population.
So for instance, suppose you're
company that targets let's say,
25 to 30 year old males.
What you want to make sure is you
define their population correctly,
that it's indeed your target market.
When you say that's your target market,
you look at the sample that you've
collected for the survey that is
representative of the target market.
Why is that?
Because then you can be more confident
that the data that you collect from
the survey is indeed representative of
what might happen in your target market.
Then you'll, of course,
ensure that respondents selected to be
interviewed are available,
they understand the question,
have the appropriate knowledge
to answer the questions.
And you're of course
motivating them in some
incentives to provide
information to the surveys.
And here the biggest issue of
course are response rates.
You might not be surprised or
perhaps you are, the typical response
rates in service is about 5%.
So what that means is,
of the 100 people you send out the survey
to, only 5 of them will respond.
So clearly it's very low.
You should think about appropriate
ways in which you can incentivize
respondent to in fact
respond to your survey.
A couple of ways to think about this.
One is,
how do you handle this non-response?
First, you want to collect data as much
as possible on people who don't respond.
Why?
Because you want to make sure
that the people who respond and
people who don't are not systematically
different from each other.
If they are,
that might not be a very good way of
generalizing the results from
your sample of the population.
Let me give you an example.
If you're interested in capturing
people's responses of prices that you're
charging for your product, and
let's say there's a systematic difference
between people who respond and people who
don't respond in terms of their income.
That's clearly not very good
because then what you're capturing
is not a representation of
the true target market.
And why is income an important metric?
Because what you're interested is how did
they responded to the price that you pay.
So clearly income would be
a very important indicator
of how price sensitive people are.
So if there is a difference in income
levels of people who respond and
people who don't, that clearly suggest
that there is a bias in your sample
in terms of its representativeness
to the population.
What can one do?
Well, one can follow up
with non-respondents.
Try to convert them into responding.
Typically what happens is
you send them reminders.
On the pro side,
you would get people to respond.
What's the con?
The con could be if they are giving
you bad data after repeated requests.
So, what is typically done?
You typically compare each wave of
respondent to make sure they are similar.
For instance,
you might have the first wave.
These are the initial set of responders.
Let's say about 50% of people respond.
You collect that wave one.
Then after a week or so or two weeks,
you send people reminders.
These are people who have not responded.
Let's say 20% to 30% of them responded.
Rather than just aggregating or
collecting the data,
you would want to make sure that
the 50% who responded in week
1 are not systematically different
from the 30% who responded in week 3.
If that is the case you can
convert all the data together.
If that's not the case, I would advise
you to look at the data separately.
Now let's go back to other steps.
Step 1,
what bits of information to collect?
I think here what you have to make sure is
you translate whatever research objectives
you have into information requirements.
One way to think about it is thinking
in terms of question relevancy.
What would you do with
the answer if you knew it?
So kind of work backwards.
So think about the ideal situation
in which you knew the answer,
then think about how your managerial
decisions would be different.
Once you put that perspective in mind,
it becomes easy to understand how
you should ask those questions.
Then the question is how do
you format those questions?
There are two big ways
of thinking about that.
One I will recall is
open response questions,
why do you shop Genuardi's for example?
Another is closed response questions.
How often do you shop a Genuardi's,
very often to not at all.
What you notice here,
open response basically ask respondent
to come up with their answers.
They're not really give
any feedback per se.
On the other hand,
in closed response question,
you typically have a particular question
in mind and you have a skill for example,
from very often not at
all in this question.
Let's talk a little bit about
what are the advantages and
disadvantages of open-ended and
close-ended questions.
In terms of advantages, there are quite
a few of open-ended questions.
First, respondents can give a general
reaction to questions such as,
why do you say brand X is better?
Responses are given in their own words,
in their own language.
It becomes easier for people to respond.
It can also help interpret
clues in the data.
For example, if people are thinking
about a particular color,
you can follow up to kind of say,
why was that particular color important?
And it might also suggest
what other questions to ask.
Lots of advantages.
At the same time,
there's some drawbacks as well.
First of all, it's not very good for
self-administered surveys.
Why?
Because sometimes,
survey fatigue might come in.
If you think about respondents that
are going through a lot of questions.
You keep asking them open-ended questions,
after a little while,
they might have some fatigue and
they might be not as articulate.
And of course,
all the answers that you get,
depend upon how articulate the person is.
If they're able to understand what they're
thinking about, they're very articulate,
open-ended questions are great.
Why?
Because they're responding
in their own language and
in their own verbage.
If they're not as articulate,
you don't get a lot of information.
And finally in terms of analyzing the
data, post-coding can be quite tedious.
Because it's open end data,
it's their own verbiage, it might
be very difficult to understand all
the different things that one has to code.
So now let's flip back and
kind of talk about closed-ended questions.
Closed-ended questions like I said before,
if you think back to the example how
often do you shop at Genuardi's, the
respondent is provided with predetermined
descriptions and
selects one or more of them.
What are the advantages here, quite clear.
It's easy to use,
it's less threatening for the respondents,
it's very simple to code and
much cheaper to administer.
On the flip side,
it requires a lot of pre-testing.
You want to make sure that
the questions you're asking,
the categories that you're giving
people to take or select are clear.
They understand what it means, and
in fact, it presumes that the list
of responses is complete.
Lot more effort, but I think in terms
of coding it becomes more easy.
So again when you think about what
type of questions you want to ask,
I think you have to keep
the end goal is mind.
If the end goal is thinking more about
what current consumers are thinking about,
open-ended might be great.
The other hand if the end goal is, you
have a very good set of questions you want
to ask them, you have a good idea of
what responses you're looking at or
what you want to see,
closed-ended might be better.
In terms of best practice, you often do
exploratory research using open-ended
questions and use this for codes in
the quantitative survey with closed-ended.
So this will give you a sense of
how one would design a survey.
Typically, you start with open-ended,
get a sense of all the different
issues that come up.
You get a sense of what
customers are thinking about and
then you design
the closed-ended questions.
Now let's move on to step 3,
drafting the questions.
I think it's very, very important here
to use simple, conventional language.
I'll give you an example
on the next slide.
Avoid ambiguity, be specific as possible,
and don't have long questions.
And start broad and then narrow down.
Keep in mind that when respondents
are answering surveys,
they typically don't have a lot of time.
So if you make it very long,
you ask long questions,
it’s very ambiguous,
you might see a lot of drop outs.
People who starts a survey and
then drop out because of it becoming very,
very tedious to answer those questions.
Here's an example, consider your target
sample and use familiar language.
Did you notice any malfunction
at the time of purchase?
Versus did you notice anything
wrong with it when you bought it?
What you see immediately
is that the latter question
is a little bit more easy to
understand for the general audience.
The first question, did you notice any
malfunctions, uses specific language,
specific verbiage that may be difficult
for the common respondent to answer.
So again, keep your respondent in mind,
understand what they're comfortable with
and design the questions in that sense.
And finally, think about sequencing.
Think about the layout guidelines.
Here are some best practices.
Open the survey with an easy
non-threatening question.
You want people to ease into the survey.
So for instance, if you want
information about their income or
where they live, those might not be
very good questions to start out with.
These are questions that, in fact
ask quite a lot of personal details.
If you do want to ask those questions,
it's probably better to ask them later on,
when they've kind of
eased into the survey.
It should have a smooth and logical flow,
from very general to kind of specific and
there can be a lot of order biases.
I'll give you an example in
the next slide what I mean by it.
A typical common bias is survey fatigue.
Now what's a way around this kind of bias?
Randomized ordering of your
questions as much as possible.
Let me give you an example
of an order bias.
Here are four examples.
What I'm trying to look at here is
what is the percentage of respondents
who said they're very much
interested in buying a new product?
That's what you see on the right column.
In the first row when no questions were
asked before asking that question,
2.8% people were interested
in buying this product.
When you ask people only about
the advantages of the product,
what you see is that that
number jumps up to 16.7%.
Of course,
if you only ask people about disadvantages
of the product, nobody wants to buy it.
And finally when you ask people
about advantages and disadvantages,
it's a number between 2% and
16%, about 5%.
What do we see here?
How we order the questions,
where is it being asked in the overall
survey is extremely important.
So typically, a rule of thumb is if you
think about a question that's important to
you, make sure to randomize its order.
Sometimes some people will
get it in the beginning,
some people might get it towards the end,
some people might get it in the middle.
What you want to see and
make sure is that there is no order bias.
No matter where they get it,
you're getting a similar answer.
So let me conclude with step 5 and 7,
pre-testing and correcting problems.
And keep in mind step 6, if you remember,
was about just making sure that all
the people who are interested in during
the survey, you have a buyout with them.
So it's got little to do with the survey
design per se, but making sure that
everybody who's interested in
doing the survey is on board.
So having said that,
let's go back to Step 5 and 7.
Here the idea is to make sure that before
we implement the survey with your final
target sample, just clean out the survey.
Make sure all the questions
that you do are meaningful.
People who are interested in
answering the the surveys,
they understand what the questions are.
You're designing the questions
with the respondent in mind.
What that means is, you make sure
that you're using verbiage or
language, that the respondent
would be familiar with.
You're asking questions which go
from more general to more specific.
Always lead off with questions which
are non-threatening so that consumers or
respondents who are answering the survey
can easily get into the survey.
Once all of that is done, hopefully what
you have as an end result is a survey that
is easy to understand, easy to implement,
respondents are comfortable answering it,
and you'll have good data from the survey.
So let me conclude with what we've done in
this whole session about survey design.
One is you think about and carefully look
at a survey as a mini-market research.
What that means is you think
carefully about every question.
You think about how to
design those questions.
What are the best questions to ask?
Should it be open-ended or closed-ended?
Well, it depends upon
what your objective is.
What kind of language should be used?
Again, it depends upon
what the target market is.
So think carefully about when
you're designing a survey.
Each question is very important and
how the questions are ordered
together even more important.
Typically what you want to do is,
if you are asking some
specific kind of questions, for
instance, about customer satisfaction.
There is a lot research that has already
happened in terms of what might be
best ways to answer that question and
ask that question.
What I mean by that is search for
and use proven questions.
That way,
you don't have to do the heavy lifting,
somebody else has already done
the heavy lifting for you.
And finally, before you go ahead and
implement the questionnaire,
always pretest it.
Maybe start out with
a sample of 20 to 30 people
to make sure that they understand
each of the questions.
To make sure that the answer
that you're getting makes sense
before you go ahead and implement that
survey with a much larger sample.
So hopefully with this particular
part of our survey design,
you have a good understanding of
the dos and don'ts of survey design.
What are the things you
should keep track of?
Now you also have a good understanding
of a particular type of question,
the net promoter score, that is
extremely popular in the marketplace.
What I mean by good understanding is you
know the pros, but you also know the cons.
So what I want you take
away from all of these is
that when you start
designing a questionnaire or
a survey, always keep every question
in mind, think about the end goal.
And work backwards whether that particular
question you're asking is going to help
you answer the end goal.